0.4.1 release blog post. (#27)
kroxylicious/kroxylicious.github.io: _posts/2024-01-12-release-0_4_1.md

---
layout: post
title:  "Kroxylicious release 0.4.1"
date:   2023-01-12 00:00:00 +0000
author: "Sam Barker"
author_url: "https://www.github.com/SamBarker"

> categories:  releases kroxylcious topic-encryption

Reviewer: ```suggestion
categories:  releases kroxylicious topic-encryption
```

Reviewer: maybe should fixup `2023-12-19-release-0_4_0.md` too

Author: As I had copy and pasted the `front matter` I've fixed this in https://github.com/kroxylicious/kroxylicious.github.io/pull/27/commits/b785f79e000fd2e3881bdd65cb1b4640f2296633

---

The Kroxylicious project is very pleased to announce the release of [Kroxylicious 0.4.1](https://github.com/kroxylicious/kroxylicious/releases/tag/v0.4.1). This release is focused on [fixing](https://github.com/kroxylicious/kroxylicious/issues/841) an issue where the proxy failed to preserve offsets while decrypting records. While we feel a little sheepish that our own testing (which we have improved at both [unit](https://github.com/kroxylicious/kroxylicious/pull/843) and [integration](https://github.com/kroxylicious/kroxylicious/pull/839/files#diff-f6ca390d21c7e5bcd3134c97c204d8394ada9217ae791da9da1c7255c8a97a75) levels) for 0.4.0 missed it we got a great bug report from [@giacomoa](https://github.com/giacomoa). Speaking of great bug reports this release also includes our first external contribution [PR#849](https://github.com/kroxylicious/kroxylicious/pull/849) from [@luozhenyu](https://github.com/luozhenyu) which fixes an issue in the SASL authentication handling.

This release also includes some other small changes cleaning up examples and updating dependencies. 

> The whole Kroxylicious team is very excited to see people testing out the proxy and is really looking forward to hearing more about how & where people want to use it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The whole Kroxylicious team is very excited to see people testing out the proxy and is really looking forward to hearing more about how & where people are using it.
```

> ### Encryption at Rest

Reviewer: Should we drop this and the binary artefacts section, they are duped from 0.4.0. Maybe you could make it shorter and mention 0.4.0 plus link to the older blog if you want to maximise what this blog is delivering.

Reviewer: ah the binaries could be a standard part of the release blog right

Author: I was keeping it as the core feature of 0.4.x and trying to push it in front of anyone stumbling across the announcement. 

I did re-word the binaries section to just say that they are available which felt like something the post should say explicitly, though format is entirely up for grabs.

Reviewer: Yeah probably right that we should make it easy to view the demo. In that case it's a bit funky how it launches into talking about Filter. Maybe needs an intro paragraph.

Reviewer: like the previous blog had higher up:

The big news is this release includes our `EnvelopeEncryption` filter which provides an **Encryption-at-Rest** solution for Apache Kafka(tm) which is _transparent_ to both clients and brokers.

> The `EnvelopeEncryption` filter works by intercepting all produce requests from applications and encrypts the Kafka records as they pass through Kroxylicious. On the consume path, the reverse happens - the filter intercepts the fetch responses and decrypts the records before they are sent to the application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `EnvelopeEncryption` filter works by intercepting all produce requests from applications and encrypting the Kafka records as they pass through Kroxylicious. On the consume path, the reverse happens - the filter intercepts the fetch responses and decrypts the records before they are sent to the application.
```

We have more work planned to iterate on the implementation to reach production quality. Check out our [0.5.0 milestone](https://github.com/kroxylicious/kroxylicious/milestones/0.5.0) for details.

> The Kafka Cluster *never* sees the plain text of your records. Filter configuration is used to specify which topic(s) should be encrypted by which key.

Reviewer 2: Shame we don't have documentation for this yet (https://github.com/kroxylicious/kroxylicious/issues/787), but nothing we can do here, I guess.

> The encryption keys themselves are stored safely in a Key Management System.  0.4.0 ships with a [HashiCorp Vault](https://www.hashicorp.com/products/vault)(tm) integration.  We will provide other selected Key Management System integrations soon, however users can leverage the plug-in architecture of Kroxylicious to supply their own integrations.

Reviewer 2: I'm generally very wary of making statements that commit to doing _anything_, never mind implying any kind of _timeframe_. 

```suggestion
The encryption keys themselves are stored safely in a Key Management System.  0.4.0 ships with a [HashiCorp Vault](https://www.hashicorp.com/products/vault)(tm) integration.  We hope provide other selected Key Management System integrations in due course, however users can leverage the plug-in architecture of Kroxylicious to supply their own integrations.
```

The diagram below shows how the system works at a high level.

![image](https://github.com/kroxylicious/kroxylicious.github.io/assets/18440250/09aeb1f4-f420-4d89-b9f7-394473dddc05){:width="100%"}

If this use-case interests you, here's a [short demo](https://asciinema.org/a/627637) that shows the feature in action. To try it out yourself there's some [interim instructions](https://github.com/kroxylicious/kroxylicious/blob/1e58fc703e45c7fdb0990adb583cf4aa857047cd/kubernetes-examples/envelope-encryption/README.md) to use the feature in development.  There will be more information landing on the website soon, but meanwhile, if you have questions or comments please head over to the [Slack channel](https://kroxylicious.slack.com/).

{% include asciicinema.html id="627637" %}

> ### Binary artefacts

Reviewer 2: I think we should stick to the American spelling (artifact). It's what people are used to seeing (e.g. in `pom.xml`).

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/kroxylicious/kroxylicious.github.io/pull/27/commits/8b3e26f05624bb2d7607286307ba6856e3b5b9f7
